---
title: Convert Mesh to Triangle Mesh and Primitive Shape to Mesh
type: docs
weight: 20
url: /java/convert-mesh-to-triangle-mesh-and-primitive-shape-to-mesh/
---

## **Convert Mesh to Triangle Mesh with Custom Memory Layout of Vertex**
Aspose.3D for Java API has support to convert mesh to triangle mesh with custom memory layout of the vertex. The custom memory layout of the Vertex is defined dynamically by **VertexDeclaration** class in the code examples.

{{% alert color="primary" %}}

This help topic creates meshes from the box and sphere to keep the code comprehensive and short. Developers may construct a mesh manually as narrated in this help topic: [Create 3D Cube Mesh](/3d/java/create-3d-mesh-and-scene/).

{{% /alert %}}

Developers may convert mesh to triangle mesh because any complex (surface) structure can be represented as a bunch of triangles. The triangle is the most atomic geometry. Thus it is used as base for almost anything. This code example converts a Box to triangle mesh with custom memory layout.



{{< gist "aspose-3d" "a10c42b56128eaadb7d7f81e2176306c" "aspose-3d-src-examples-objects-ConvertBoxMeshtoTriangleMeshCustomMemoryLayout.java" >}}
## **Convert Primitive Shape to Mesh**
Aspose.3D for Java API has support of converting any primitive shape to mesh. Primitive shapes include most basic and used objects like box, sphere, plane, cylinder, and torus.

{{% alert color="primary" %}}

Any class that implements an interface IMeshConvertible can be converted to mesh while exporting to any 3D file format.

{{% /alert %}}
### **Convert Sphere Primitive to Mesh**
A sphere is a perfectly round geometrical object in three-dimensional space that appear everywhere from sports balls to planets in space. Let’s use the Sphere primitive to create a mesh.
The code example below converts a Sphere to mesh.

{{< gist "aspose-3d" "a10c42b56128eaadb7d7f81e2176306c" "aspose-3d-src-examples-objects-ConvertSpherePrimitivetoMesh.java" >}}
### **Convert Box to Mesh**
A Box describes a variety of containers and receptacles for permanent use as storage, or for temporary use, often for transporting contents. Let’s use the Box primitive to create a mesh. The code example below converts a Box to mesh.

{{< gist "aspose-3d" "a10c42b56128eaadb7d7f81e2176306c" "aspose-3d-src-examples-objects-ConvertBoxPrimitivetoMesh.java" >}}
### **Convert a Plane to Mesh**
A plane extends infinitely without thickness. An example of a plane is a coordinate plane. Lets use the Plane primitive to create a mesh. The code example below converts a Plane to mesh.

{{< gist "aspose-3d" "a10c42b56128eaadb7d7f81e2176306c" "aspose-3d-src-examples-objects-ConvertPlanePrimitivetoMesh.java" >}}
### **Convert a Cylinder to Mesh**
A cylinder is one of the most basic curvilinear geometric shapes, the surface formed by the points at a fixed distance from a given straight line, the axis of the cylinder. It can be used in many places, for example as a pillar in front of a home or as a car driveshaft. Lets use the Cylinder primitive to create a mesh. The code example below converts a Cylinder to mesh.

{{< gist "aspose-3d" "a10c42b56128eaadb7d7f81e2176306c" "aspose-3d-src-examples-objects-ConvertCylinderPrimitivetoMesh.java" >}}
### **Convert a Torus to Mesh**
A torus is a surface of revolution generated by revolving a circle in three-dimensional space about an axis coplanar with the circle. If the axis of revolution does not touch the circle, the surface has a ring shape and is called a torus of revolution. Let’s use the Torus primitive to create a mesh. The code example below converts a Torus to mesh.

{{< gist "aspose-3d" "a10c42b56128eaadb7d7f81e2176306c" "aspose-3d-src-examples-objects-ConvertTorusPrimitivetoMesh.java" >}}
